

References
----------

The following procedure is based on

    Raspberry Pi SD Card Set Up (Partitioning anf formatting a 32+GB card)
    https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tsh0Xt9M_8g

and

    Formatting an SDXC card for used with NOOBS
    https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/installation/sdxc_formatting.md

The main difference between the two is the youtube version uses only native
windows tools and manual procedures.  The other gives techniques for Windows,
Mac, and Linux.


Background
-----------

Notes say that Raspberry boot loader can work only with FAT16 or FAT32
and that this is a permanent limitation

Any card > 32G is an SDXC card and is formatted with exFAT file system
and cannot be used as is for the RPi boot disk

The essence of the procedure is to change the format of the card to FAT32 so
that the cards can be used as the boot disk.



The Rasperrypi.org method
-------------------------

Tried the Rasperrypi.org method.  Got nowhere.  Used sudo gparted to delete,
create, and format a FAT32 drive.  Copied NOOBS to it, but it would not boot.
Believe I did something wrong but don't know what.

Eventually, I used the RPi SD Card copy utility to duplicate the card I had
made earlier using the youtube mehod.  The card copy was very fast.  Finished
in about 30 minutes.



The Youtube Method
------------------

On a Windows system --

1.  Download NOOBS from

         https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/noobs/

    When downloaded, NOOBS will be in a zip file.  Extract from zip file into
    a folder on disk.  Near end of procedure, NOOBS will be copied to the SD
    Card

    As of June 5, 2019, latest version of NOOBS is 3.0.1 released on
    2019-04-08

2.  If card needs to be reformatted, use formatter from SDCard.org
    Format card as one partition with exFAT file system

3.  Open Computer Management, select Disk Management, find drive letter of SD
    Card

4.  Run DiskPart. Enter 'list volume' to show all drive volumes.  Find drive
    letter of SD Card The two should agree.  Mine is K.

5.  In DiskPart,

                select volume X       (mine is 8)
                list partition
                delete partition      (disk management shows 'Unallocate')

     Close DiskPart

6.  In Disk Management, right click, select New Simple Volume Wizard.  Select --

       Set volume size to 10000
       Next
       Assign drive letter -- default
       Next
       Format -- select FAT 32
       Allocation unit -- default
       Volume label -- something unique to make it easily identifiable
       Quict Format
       Format
       Finish

       Disk Management will show a 9.77 GB FAT32 primary partition and a large
       block of unallocated space

       Close Disk Management
       
       Copy all of NOOBS to SD Card

       Eject disk

7.  Insert SD Card into RPi, turn on power.  Green light should flash and
    partition will be resized.  Will boot to NOOBS install screen.  
    
    Select full Raspian OS, the recommended OS for RPi.
    
    Install will take a while.
    
8.  Power off and reboot.  

    Hope it works.
